# Hospital-Management-System-using-Java-and-MySQL
Established in 1992, Avenue Hospital is a small scale, private, regional hospital situated in Nairobi in order to provide health services to out-patients who are unable to receive medical facilitates from the government hospital of Nairobi. They have over 200 employees working at the hospital and have nine different departments in their hospital as follows; Emergency Unit (EU), Pharmaceutical Unit (PU), Laboratory Unit (LU), Radiology Unit (RU), Surgical Unit (SU), Channelling Unit (CU), Maintenance Unit (MU), Administration Unit (AU), Front Office (FO), and they also have a pool of renowned doctors; Orthopaedics, Surgeons, Gynaecologists, Neurologists, Cardiologists, Gastroenterologists, Otolaryngologists (ENT) and General Physicians who visit the CU from the Government Hospital of Nairobi once in a week.
There are several manual processes running in one department. In this, CU is responsible for all doctor channelling services and FO provides support to receive enquiries from patients and then to reserve their doctor channelling appointment for the required purpose based on the nature of the query manually. However, FO is responsible for checking the appropriate date for channelling appointment by scanning through the consultation schedule of the doctors who are available in the hospital for the selected date and then to notify it to the patient. If the patient is satisfied with the appointment time, he/she can reserve the appointment for that date and time by paying a registration fee based on the nature of treatment. Once the payment is done, there will be a receipt issued to the patient and it contains 3 copies. One patient copy, second CU copy and then FO copy. FO copy will be filed in the front office Patient Inward file and only patient copy and CU copy will be issued to the patient for future use. Once the patient arrives to the CU, he/ she must surrender the CU copy to the nurse in the channelling room prior to the channelling consultation.
Appointed as a junior programmer at a software development company, I was asked to design the hospital system as per the above scenario. The program allowed the user to:
• Show a list of patients.
• Add new patients, tests, e.t.c.
• Display the patient treatment report.
The program makes use of a form which has text boxes, labels, arrays, dropdown boxes and buttons. The buttons have various functions including a calculation function.
